--title--
The Wolf And The Lamb
--title-- 
WOLF, meeting with a Lamb astray from the fold, resolved not to lay 
violent hands on him, but to find some plea to justify to the Lamb the 
Wolf’s right to eat him. He thus addressed him: “Sirrah, last year you 
grossly insulted me.” “Indeed,” bleated the Lamb in a mournful tone 
of voice, “I was not then born.” Then said the Wolf, “You feed in my 
pasture.” “No, good sir,” replied the Lamb, “I have not yet tasted 
grass.” Again said the Wolf, “You drink of my well.” “No,” exclaimed the 
Lamb, “I never yet drank water, for as yet my mother’s milk is both food 
and drink to me.” Upon which the Wolf seized him and ate him up, saying, 
“Well! I won’t remain supperless, even though you refute every one of my 
imputations.” The tyrant will always find a pretext for his tyranny.

--page--
--title--
The Bat And The Weasels 
--title--
A BAT who fell upon the ground and was caught by a Weasel pleaded to be 
spared his life. The Weasel refused, saying that he was by nature the 
enemy of all birds. The Bat assured him that he was not a bird, but a 
mouse, and thus was set free. Shortly afterwards the Bat again fell to 
the ground and was caught by another Weasel, whom he likewise entreated 
not to eat him. The Weasel said that he had a special hostility to 
mice. The Bat assured him that he was not a mouse, but a bat, and thus a 
second time escaped. 
It is wise to turn circumstances to good account.

--page--
--title--
The Ass And The Grasshopper 
--title--
AN ASS having heard some Grasshoppers chirping, was highly enchanted; 
and, desiring to possess the same charms of melody, demanded what sort 
of food they lived on to give them such beautiful voices. They replied, 
“The dew.” The Ass resolved that he would live only upon dew, and in a 
short time died of hunger. 

--page--
--title--
The Lion And The Mouse 
--title--
A LION was awakened from sleep by a Mouse running over his face. Rising 
up angrily, he caught him and was about to kill him, when the Mouse 
piteously entreated, saying: “If you would only spare my life, I would 
be sure to repay your kindness.” The Lion laughed and let him go. It 
happened shortly after this that the Lion was caught by some hunters, 
who bound him by strong ropes to the ground. The Mouse, recognizing 
his roar, came and gnawed the rope with his teeth, and set him free, 
exclaiming: 
“You ridiculed the idea of my ever being able to help you, not expecting 
to receive from me any repayment of your favor; now you know that it is 
possible for even a Mouse to confer benefits on a Lion.”

--page--

--title--
The Charcoal-Burner And The Fuller 
--title--
A CHARCOAL-BURNER carried on his trade in his own house. One day he met 
a friend, a Fuller, and entreated him to come and live with him, saying 
that they should be far better neighbors and that their housekeeping 
expenses would be lessened. The Fuller replied, “The arrangement is 
impossible as far as I am concerned, for whatever I should whiten, you 
would immediately blacken again with your charcoal.” 
Like will draw like.

--page--

--title--
The Wolf and the Crane
--title--
A Wolf had been gorging on an animal he had killed, when
suddenly a small bone in the meat stuck in his throat and he
could not swallow it. He soon felt terrible pain in his throat,
and ran up and down groaning and groaning and seeking
for something to relieve the pain. He tried to induce every
one he met to remove the bone. ‘I would give anything,’ said
he, ‘if you would take it out.’ At last the Crane agreed to
try, and told the Wolf to lie on his side and open his jaws
as wide as he could. Then the Crane put its long neck down
the Wolf’s throat, and with its beak loosened the bone, till
at last it got it out.
‘Will you kindly give me the reward you promised?’ said
the Crane.
The Wolf grinned and showed his teeth and said: ‘Be
content. You have put your head inside a Wolf’s mouth and
taken it out again in safety; that ought to be reward enough
for you.’
Gratitude and greed go not together.

--page--

--title--
The Man and the Serpent
--title--

A Countryman’s son by accident trod upon a Serpent’s tail,
which turned and bit him so that he died. The father in a
rage got his axe, and pursuing the Serpent, cut off part of
its tail. So the Serpent in revenge began stinging several of
the Farmer’s cattle and caused him severe loss. Well, the
Farmer thought it best to make it up with the Serpent, and
brought food and honey to the mouth of its lair, and said to
it: ‘Let’s forget and forgive; perhaps you were right to punish
my son, and take vengeance on my cattle, but surely I was
right in trying to revenge him; now that we are both satisfied why should not we be friends again?’
‘No, no,’ said the Serpent; ‘take away your gifts; you can
never forget the death of your son, nor I the loss of my tail.’
Injuries may be forgiven, but not forgotten.

--page--

--title--
The Town Mouse and the Country Mouse
--title--

Now you must know that a Town Mouse once upon a time
went on a visit to his cousin in the country. He was rough
and ready, this cousin, but he loved his town friend and
made him heartily welcome. Beans and bacon, cheese and
bread, were all he had to offer, but he offered them freely. The Town Mouse rather turned up his long nose at this
country fare, and said: ‘I cannot understand, Cousin, how
you can put up with such poor food as this, but of course
you cannot expect anything better in the country; come
you with me and I will show you how to live. When you
have been in town a week you will wonder how you could
ever have stood a country life.’ No sooner said than done:
the two mice set off for the town and arrived at the Town
Mouse’s residence late at night. ‘You will want some refreshment after our long journey,’ said the polite Town Mouse,
and took his friend into the grand dining-room. There they
found the remains of a fine feast, and soon the two mice
were eating up jellies and cakes and all that was nice. Suddenly they heard growling and barking. ‘What is that?’ said
the Country Mouse. ‘It is only the dogs of the house,’ answered the other. ‘Only!’ said the Country Mouse. ‘I do not
like that music at my dinner.’ Just at that moment the door flew open, in came two huge mastiffs, and the two mice had
to scamper down and run off. ‘Good-bye, Cousin,’ said the
Country Mouse, ‘What! going so soon?’ said the other. ‘Yes,’
he replied;
‘Better beans and bacon in peace than cakes and ale in
fear.

--page--

--title--
The Fox and the Crow
--title--

A Fox once saw a Crow fly off with a piece of cheese in its
beak and settle on a branch of a tree. ‘That’s for me, as I
am a Fox,’ said Master Reynard, and he walked up to the
foot of the tree. ‘Good-day, Mistress Crow,’ he cried. ‘How
well you are looking to-day: how glossy your feathers; how
bright your eye. I feel sure your voice must surpass that of
other birds, just as your figure does; let me hear but one
song from you that I may greet you as the Queen of Birds.’
The Crow lifted up her head and began to caw her best, but
the moment she opened her mouth the piece of cheese fell
to the ground, only to be snapped up by Master Fox. ‘That
will do,’ said he. ‘That was all I wanted. In exchange for your
cheese I will give you a piece of advice for the future .’Do
not trust flatterers.’

--page--

--title--
The Sick Lion
--title--

A Lion had come to the end of his days and lay sick unto
death at the mouth of his cave, gasping for breath. The animals, his subjects, came round him and drew nearer as he
grew more and more helpless. When they saw him on the
point of death they thought to themselves: ‘Now is the time
to pay off old grudges.’ So the Boar came up and drove at
him with his tusks; then a Bull gored him with his horns;
still the Lion lay helpless before them: so the Ass, feeling
quite safe from danger, came up, and turning his tail to
the Lion kicked up his heels into his face. ‘This is a double
death,’ growled the Lion.
Only cowards insult dying majesty.